h1. Database Rake Tasks Plugin for Rails

These are some additional database-related Rake tasks for Rails that fill in some holes left by the built-in Rails tasks. These are all things that I’ve had to do enough at one time or another that I felt it necessary to write tasks for them.

h2. Installation

bc. git submodule add git@github.com:codyrobbins/database_rake_tasks_plugin.git

h2. Usage

h3. db:purge

Removes all the data from the current environment’s database, but does not drop the database itself. This task is the same as @db:test:purge@, but operates on the current environment’s database.

h3. db:recreate

Drops and then recreates the current environment’s database. This task is equivalent to running @db:drop@ and @db:create@. The distinction from @db:reset@ is that doesn’t use @schema.rb@ to recreate the database, but rather just creates a new blank database.

h3. db:recreate:all

Drops and then recreates all databases. This task is the same as @db:recreate@, but operates on all databases.

h3. db:migrate:all

Migrates all databases. This task is the same as @db:migrate@, but operates on all databases. You can target a specific version with @VERSION=x@, and turn off output with @VERBOSE=false@.

h3. db:migrate:reset:all

Recreates all databases by running all migrations. This task is the same as @db:migrate:reset@, but operates on all databases.

h3. db:migrate:verify

Tests any uncommitted migrations by resetting the current environment’s database, migrating all uncommitted migrations down, and then migrating up again. This task is useful to doing a final check before committing to make sure that all migrations you are adding run both up and down without any problems.

h3. db:fixtures:export

Create YAML test fixtures from the data in the current environment’s database. A separate fixtures file will be created in @test/fixtures/ENVIRONMENT@ for each database table, with each individual fixture given a numeric index. This is a good way to avoid having to type a lot of YAML if create your test fixtures directly in the database first, or if you want to create fixtures from some production data.

h2. Compatability

* These tasks have been tested with Rails 2.3.8 as of 2010-07-15.

h2. Support

Please report any bugs, view revision history, or add to the wiki on this project’s "GitHub page":http://github.com/codyrobbins/database_rake_tasks_plugin.

h2. Copyright

Copyright 2006–2010 "Sakuzaku, LLC":http://sakuzaku.com. Released under the MIT license.